When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Female felines are \superfecund
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
